# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

In the console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

In lines 19 to 33 of below

def save() # CREATE
  db = PG.connect({dbname: 'property_tracker', host: 'localhost'})
  sql = "INSERT INTO properties
  (
    address,
    value,
    bedrooms,
    build
  )
  VALUES
  (
    $1,$2,$3,$4
  )
  RETURNING id"
  values = [@address, @value, @bedrooms, @build]
  db.prepare("save", sql)
  @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"]
  db.close()
end



Q3. In console.rb, which lines modify the database?

4, 31, 33

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

It is the role of the database to assign the next available id number.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?


line 68 of the below code

def save() # CREATE
  db = PG.connect({dbname: 'property_tracker', host: 'localhost'})
  sql = "INSERT INTO properties
  (
    address,
    value,
    bedrooms,
    build
  )
  VALUES
  (
    $1,$2,$3,$4
  )
  RETURNING id"
  values = [@address, @value, @bedrooms, @build]
  db.prepare("save", sql)
  @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"]
  db.close()
end

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

if there is no id assigned yet then it will return nil. Nil to_i would return 0? messing up the database automatic id.




Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

Some methods apply to the entirity of the database and thus class. i.e Delete_all.
Other only apply to an instance of the database. Insert a new row of information.



Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?




Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

It is a safety layer for the code so that hackers can not potentially manipulate the sql code to enter into the database


## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
id and address

Q11. What are their return values?


The result is an array of only one value which is a hash of the information about that row.
